---
layout: post
author: andrew
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
Ipala, Guatemala. I first went there.. I think in 2014 or 2015. It was with two my brothers and my dad. It was a lot of fun and a great time learning about the culture. My dad is the pastor at a church in Spencerville, MD. Our church has a relationship with the town of Ipala.. through some people who used to live there and the fact that a nearby city in MD calls Ipala their sister town. <!--more-->
I think I've been there 4 times since then. Each time meeting new people and seeing people I've met on previous trips. But this last year is the one I want to focus on in this post.
Each trip we step out into Guatemala City from the international airport and into a small bus that takes the about 20 of us through vertically - and horizontally - winding roads for roughly 5-6 hours. Bumpy roads, volcanic views, Bachata (shoutout Romeo Santos) tunes, and narrative games fill up those hours on the road while we make our way to Ipala.
We normally meet up some members of C.I.D.H.E.R, a group local to Ipala that we have formed a close relationship with. They help identify people in and around the town that most need help, whether with housing, education, or general health. 
When we arrive at the motel on the outskirts of the town, we can get ready for the next 10 or so days. Not getting into the details too much, but in general we spend some days helping construct, or deconstruct, a house for a family that really needs it. Other days and times, we will be meeting scholarship students (you can find some more info *[here](https://www.eduhealthca.org/2020/12/15/education-support.html)*), hanging out and playing volleyball, basketball, and soccer with students at various schools, moving in smokeless stoves (read about the importance of this *[here](https://www.nationalgeographic.com/photography/proof/2017/07/guatemala-cook-stoves/)*), climbing *[volcanos](https://images.app.goo.gl/ZR4Ng8t5aUgDmbPT7)* with lakes in them, playing mafia, and **sooooo** much more..
I could talk for hours about my experiences here and would love to delve deeper into it at some point. Maybe next time I can go, I'll take some more notes so that I don't forget most of what we do there.